# SharedBike_Usage_Prediction

Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of
obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of
kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able to
rent a bike from one location and return it to a different place on an
as-needed basis. Currently, there are over 500 bike-sharing programs
around the world.

The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for
researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival
location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems
therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying
mobility in a city.

Objective:
Combine historical usage patterns with weather data in order to forecast
hourly bike rental demand.

Data:

Following files are provided - 
1. train.csv : Used this dataset to train the model. This file contains all the
weather related features as well as the target variable “count”. Train
dataset is comprised of first 18 months.
2. test.csv : Used the trained model to predict the count of total rentals for
each hour during the next 6 months.

Data Dictionary:

Here is the description of all the variables :

Variable				 		Definition

datetime 					hourly date + timestamp
season 						Type of season (1 = spring, 2 = summer, 3 = fall,
											4 = winter)
holiday 					whether the day is considered a holiday
workingday 					whether the day is neither a weekend nor holiday
weather 					weather
temp 						temperature in Celsius
atemp 						"feels like" temperature in Celsius
humidity 					relative humidity
windspeed 					wind speed
casual 						number of non-registered user rentals initiated
registered 					number of registered user rentals initiated
count 						number of total rentals

Evaluation Metric:

The Evaluation metric for this project is Root Mean Squared Logarithmic
Error (RMSLE). The RMSLE is calculated as:

sqrt((1/n) * sum((log(p[i] + 1) - log(a[i] +1))^2)

Where:
● n is the number of hours in the test set
● p i is your predicted count
● a i is the actual count
● log( x ) is the natural logarithm.

